Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
crime, and sci-fi film called "Robocop."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A local news station reports about
dead and injured police officers.
Omni Consumer Products or O.C.P. is the
firm responsible for the operations of the
Detroit Metropolitan Police Department.
The president of O.C.P, Richard Jones,
states that police officers who can't handle
the risks should look for a career change.
Clarence Boddicker, a crime boss in Old Detroit,
is the prime suspect for the police killings.
Two lawyers harass Sergeant John Reed in the Metro
West precinct until he snaps and throws them out.
As they leave, Murphy, a cop from the Metro
South precinct, reports his transfer to John
and suits up for his first day on the job. In
the showers, the police staff complain about the
new management. A fellow cop suggests planning a
strike. Unfortunately, John enters and hears it.
John removes the nameplate on officer
Frederickson's locker, the officer that
died from the police killings. Everyone is
silent as he announces the upcoming funeral.
He then addresses their plan to have a strike,
saying the city will crumble without the police.
In the lobby of the precinct, Murphy
watches an officer and a fugitive
fight. The man catches punches from Officer
Ann Lewis, who catches Murphy's attention.
Murphy is her new partner, and they venture
out, playfully conversing in the vehicle.
In the O.C.P. headquarters, the C.E.O. unveils
the model of Delta City, which will be built on
the grounds of Old Detroit, purging the
area of crime and unwanted communities.
Bob Morton stands out when he applauds first.
Richard Jones makes his way to the podium
to present his plans for the Detroit Police
Department. He created a cop who works every
hour of every day, doesn't need sleep or food,
and is overall superior. He opens the
doors, revealing the machine ED 209.
It walks to the board members, who watch
it with both fear and awe. A volunteer,
Mr. Kinney, aims a gun at ED for demonstration.
The machine threatens him to drop the weapon,
which he complies with. But ED continues
to threaten him. The engineers scramble to
try and disable the machine while Kinney
runs behind the board members for help.
Out of fear, they push him away, leaving him
defenseless as ED showers him with bullets.
While the others handle the accident, the C.E.O.
expresses disappointment over the project.
Richard claims that it's only a minor setback, but
the C.E.O doesn't see a 50-million dollar setback
as minor. Bob interrupts their discussion
to inform them about the RoboCop project.
The C.E.O. gives him a chance
despite Richard disagreeing.
Bob says that he has already selected candidates
from the police department. It'll only take
three months for the prototype. He gets the
C.E.O.'s approval, leaving Richard furious.
In the streets of Detroit, Murphy practices his
gunslinging tricks, having learned the tricks to
impress his son. They hear an announcement
on the radio that leads them to a robbery.
In the robber's van, Clarence berates
his goons for burning the stolen money.
They're on a chase with Murphy and Ann, but
their vehicle is too slow to outrun the police.
So Clarence commands the driver to slow down.
With a gun in each hand, Murphy prepares to shoot.
Clarence and his goons are ready for him,
opening the doors to see an empty road.
The car maneuvers beside the van, and a shootout
commences on the highway. Murphy hits the leg
of one of the goons causing the rest of
them to fire with everything they've got.
Clarence picks up the injured goon and throws him
toward the police car, shattering the windshield
and making Ann lose control. Murphy pushes the
injured goon off and resumes their pursuit.
They arrive at an abandoned mill with
no backup coming. Despite the danger,
Ann decides to chase after them. The van is empty.
Clarence and his goons are nowhere to be seen.
The two separate to cover
as much area as possible,
sneaking within the shadows and
checking every corner of the buildings.
Ann sees a man relieving himself, and the pop
of her bubblegum disrupts the flow of urine.
The man, Joe, turns around with
his hands up and zippers down.
Ann can't help but take a peek, allowing Joe
to attack and push her over the railings.
Meanwhile, Murphy hears the goons talking about
their plans. Emil and the other goon watch their
favorite show, unaware of the gun pointing at
them. Murphy jumps, holding them at gunpoint.
The other man grabs his shotgun but gets shot
for it. Emil drops his weapon and surrenders.
On the radio, Ann hears Murphy reporting his
situation. Suddenly, the rest of the goons
surround him. He drops his guard, and Emil strikes
his gun away. Hopelessness grows as three shotguns
aim at his head. Clarence enters the scene and
confronts the officer. He mocks Murphy, breathing
down his neck and striking his calves. Clarence
knocks him around, asking where his partner is.
Joe enters, saying that she's taken care of. They
circle him like sharks to their prey. Clarence
aims up and down Murphy's body while making
robotic sounds. The goons roar with laughter
when Clarence shoots Murphy's hand off. A bloody
Murphy tries to escape, but he turns around to see
them aiming at him. He shouts in pain as shotgun
shells rain on him. Clarence finishes him off with
a bullet to the head before leaving. Ann rushes to
his aid, finding her partner bloody on the floor.
Medical professionals surround a
helicopter carrying the dying policeman.
They rush him inside, transferring
him to the operating table.
While the doctors struggle to revive him,
Murphy sees his life flash before his eyes,
reliving moments with his son and wife. Everything
turns black as the doctors fail to keep him alive.
After some time, static flashes from a
display and scientists appear in view.
Bob and his partner discuss
adjustments for the RoboCop operation.
After months of developing the cyborg,
Bob looks at it and praises his creation.
The time comes for Bob to present RoboCop to
the group, and they shower him with applause.
In the precinct, Bob and his team
enter, causing a fuss that angers John.
However, he becomes speechless as the
sound of metal clangs from the entrance.
RoboCop catches everyone's attention.
The police staff chase after him,
watching as the head engineer presents RoboCop's
features. He leads them to a machine that
dispenses RoboCop's food, and they test RoboCop
to make sure that his prime directives are set.
RoboCop's screen lists his three directives,
with the fourth one marked as classified.
In a gun range, Ann practices her shooting.
She sees from afar a metal hand firing with
pinpoint accuracy. Everyone watches in awe as he
obliterates the practice target. Bob asks John
for the keys to RoboCop's vehicle, and he catches
it without even looking. Bob admires him like a
proud father. RoboCop rides out to the city, and
the streets of Detroit instantly become safer.
In a convenience store, a man enters to buy a
magazine. He approaches the cashier and asks for
all their money. The lady is hesitant, but his gun
persuades her. As the lady puts the money in the
bag, she presses the panic button. RoboCop enters
the store, and the man realizes he’s screwed.
He frustratingly fires at the indestructible
metal shell. RoboCop bends the barrel easily
and smacks the thief. He thanks the owner
for cooperating and wishes them goodnight.
Two delinquents harass a
woman walking down the street.
They hold her still to cut her hair. They
aren't satisfied and plan to cut the hair below.
RoboCop arrives right on time and shoots
the man between the woman's skirt.
He falls to the floor with a bloody crotch,
and the woman runs to thank RoboCop.
Commotion occurs in front of the city hall
as a former councilman holds the mayor and
his staff hostage. RoboCop arrives at the
scene, and reporters quickly surround him.
He enters the building while the police
outside negotiate with the hostage-taker.
As he voices out his demands,
RoboCop nears the room.
RoboCop uses his thermal vision to
look through the walls. The former
councilman pushes the mayor's face into the
window threatening to blow his head off.
Then, RoboCop pulls him through the
wall and punches him out the window.
The news of RoboCop spreads throughout the city,
instilling fear in criminals and hope for
the masses. Aside from his immense skill,
RoboCop manifests a charm that
makes kids and adults adore him.
The news anchor reports about the O.C.P.'s
construction of Delta city. Bob, the new
vice president of O.C.P., tells the media that
RoboCop will eliminate all crime in Old Detroit.
In the bathroom, Bob and a colleague
talk about his recent achievements.
They gossip about how Richard lost his touch. The
other employees leave the bathroom as the toilet
flushes in one of the stalls. Richard exits and
congratulates Bob, noting how he also once talked
bad about his superiors. The difference is,
Richard knew not to cross the line. He berates
him about ruining his plan with ED 209, but Bob
remains unfazed and says that RoboCop is better.
Richard threatens Bob, saying that
he’ll regret making him his enemy.
In the precinct, RoboCop is going through
maintenance. He twitches in his chair,
and the readings in the machine fluctuate.
Clarence appears in his head, and he remembers the
day he and his goons killed him. The display shows
his visions, and the engineers finally notice.
RoboCop stands and starts walking out,
ignoring the commands from his creators.
RoboCop passes Ann in a corridor, who runs
after him and tries to introduce herself.
She recognizes him as Murphy, but RoboCop turns
away from her. The lead engineer shouts at Ann to
stop the cyborg. RoboCop leaves the vicinity,
and the lead engineer blames Ann for it.
At a gas station, Emil robs a studying attendant.
RoboCop is in the distance, on his way to arrest
him. Emil bullies the bookworm, saying that
being smart won't save him from a bullet.
They aim at one another, and Emil realizes that
RoboCop is Murphy. To escape, Emil shoots at the
gas hose while RoboCop stands still, seemingly
malfunctioning. Emil throws his cigarette before
driving away, and the gas station explodes.
RoboCop moves just in time and starts shooting
at Emil, causing him to crash. As his first
display of emotions, RoboCop asks who Emil is.
RoboCop returns to the precinct. He inserts
his metal spike into the terminal to access
the criminal database and searches for Emil. There
he sees his accomplices; among them is Clarence.
He looks at the file of his murder and realizes
who he is. In his profile, he sees his address.
RoboCop visits his home that is currently for
sale. He remembers where all his belongings
once were and sees the image of his son.
He makes his way to the kitchen and sees
a picture of his family. He crushes it in
his hands and continues to their bedroom.
Remembering his wife, all kinds of emotions
rush into him, making him unstable.
At a club, RoboCop walks through the
partying crowd. He's in an arrest mode,
and there he confronts one of Clarence's
goons, Nash. Nash tries to pull out a gun,
but he quickly disposes of it. He then tries a
cheap shot only to be met with a crotch of steel.
RoboCop drags him by the hair to talk.
Meanwhile, Bob is having a party of his own with
drugs and women. Bob flirts with the two, sniffing
snow off the mountain's valley. He has his hands
and faces full with the women, but suddenly,
the doorbell rings, interrupting the fun.
Clarence, with a gun in his hand, makes the women
leave. He puts on a silencer and shoots Bob's
legs. Clarence plays a video of Richard saying
that this is Bob’s fault for making him his enemy.
Clarence reveals a grenade, bites off the pin, and
leaves Bob to crawl for it. He struggles to reach
it, and Richard smiles as the house explodes.
In a factory, goons line up to pack drugs.
Clarence talks to Sal, the owner of the
factory. He shows him the money he intends to use
to buy the product. Due to his reputation, Sal is
reluctant to do business with him. Clarence dips
his finger in Sal's wine, and Sal then drinks it.
His sweet words don't persuade Sal, and instead,
it makes the situation sour as the goons aim their
guns at each other. Clarence is unbothered
by the tense situation, making Sal agree.
They begin to hear banging on the doors,
alerting everyone in the building.
RoboCop knocks the entrance down and searches
for Clarence. The goons start firing at him,
but he takes no damage at all. He shoots them off
one by one, displaying his gunslinging skills.
With every step and every shot, their numbers
dwindle. Clarence leaves his goons behind,
and he tries to jump but falls through the thin
material. RoboCop grabs him, recites the Miranda
rights but gets interrupted by spit, so he throws
him through the glass. RoboCop approaches him and
throws him again. With blood dripping from
his face, Clarence snitches on Richard Jones
before getting thrown against a window for the
third time. Now even bloodier, RoboCop lifts
him by the neck, prepared to eliminate Clarence.
However, his directives stop him from doing so.
In the precinct, John argues with the police
staff as they're planning to strike. RoboCop
silences the room, handing Clarence to the
men. Clarence spits on the form at the table,
confidently asking for his phone call.
Richard Jones is in a heated
phone call with Clarence.
He assures him that he'll take care of everything
and that he'll be soon out of the precinct.
Meanwhile, RoboCop makes his
way to O.C.P. headquarters.
RoboCop enters the building and
rides the elevator to the top floor,
where Richard awaits him. He replays Clarence's
confession as he approaches Richard's office.
Richard greets the cyborg and asks what his
purpose is. RoboCop announces his arrest, and
Richard accepts with open arms. As he approaches
Richard, he begins to malfunction. Richard informs
him about a secret directive, where RoboCop isn't
allowed to arrest any senior officer of O.C.P.
RoboCop tries to fight his program. The
situation worsens when ED enters the room.
ED showers the cyborg with bullets
and flings him to the wall. Meanwhile,
Richard reports the commotion to the police.
RoboCop sees an opening and grabs ED's firing arm,
pointing it to the other. The robot still
operates and fires multiple missiles in
RoboCop's direction. He barely dodges and makes
his way to the stairwell with ED close behind.
ED tumbles down because of its large feet,
and RoboCop leaves the struggling robot.
Outside, he is met with the police's
bright lights. The officer in command
orders the rest to fire at the cyborg,
and some officers shout in disagreement.
Still, they fire at RoboCop, and his
hard shell gets chipped little by little.
He experiences a more gruesome attack
than his first death as this time,
it’s the police shooting and not a criminal.
They corner him, but RoboCop escapes through the
highway where Ann encounters him. She carries
him to her vehicle, and they barely escape.
The local news station reports breaking news of
the Detroit Police Department city-wide strike.
Days later, a free Clarence visits O.C.P.
headquarters. He enters Richard's office, where
he's scolded for snitching on him to RoboCop,
saying that the police can use his memories
against him. To prevent this, Richard commands
Clarence to kill RoboCop. Clarence is reluctant
initially but agrees when Richard offers him the
chance to manage illegal businesses in Delta City.
Richard gives him RoboCop's radar and
all the firepower he can dream of.
In the abandoned mill, RoboCop
repairs himself with help from Ann.
She brings him his gun, a drill, and
some food. RoboCop removes the screws
on his helmet to reveal Murphy's heavily
modified head. Hearing about his family,
who moved away to start over, RoboCop
becomes emotional and asks Ann to leave.
Crime prospers in the streets of
Detroit as the police are on strike.
Emil breaks the window of an electronic
store to watch his favorite show.
Clarence and the rest of the squad reunites.
He shows them his new weaponry and tests it on
his goon's brand new vehicle. After wreaking more
havoc, they make their way to the abandoned mill.
Ann peacefully sleeps when RoboCop wakes her with
the sound of his firearm. His targeting system is
malfunctioning, and Ann helps him fix it, allowing
him to shoot the jars of food from a distance.
They hear Clarence and his goons arrive,
each with their own Assault Cannons.
RoboCop asks her to leave, but she
reminds him that they're partners.
He throws a piece of metal that catches
the enemy's attention. He shouts in the
high ground and shoots one of the
goons. The rest starts shooting,
but he remains unscathed. Emil approaches RoboCop
in a van at extreme speeds, but RoboCop dodges,
revealing the toxic waste storage behind him.
Emil arises from the acid, melted and disfigured.
Clarence drives to cut off
RoboCop, but Ann intercepts him.
During their car chase, Emil walks in front
of Clarence's vehicle, filling the windshield
with blood that causes Clarence to crash. Ann
arrives at the scene, and Clarence shoots her.
RoboCop distracts Clarence but is unaware that
Nash is above them. Ann sees this and crawls to
the assault cannon. Clarence drops his gun
and convincingly surrenders to lure him in.
Large metal beams drop onto RoboCop, and the
criminals celebrate until Ann fires the assault
cannon on Nash. Clarence grabs a metal bar and
starts smacking the still conscious RoboCop.
Clarence pierces him with the metal, and
RoboCop pierces his neck with his metal spike.
Clarence bleeds out, and the two
cops survive to see another day.
In the O.C.P. headquarters, Richard plans to send
ED 209s all over the city to replace the police.
Outside, RoboCop arrives at the
entrance, and an ED robot spots him.
It rushes towards him, but a calm RoboCop
shoots ED with the Assault Cannon.
As the board members applaud Richard,
RoboCop enters the conference room and
reports Richard's criminal charges to the
C.E.O. RoboCop inserts his metal spike into
the displays. Richard’s confession of killing
Bob plays on the screens. Feeling trapped,
Richard takes the C.E.O. hostage and threatens
to kill him if anyone tries to intervene.
The C.E.O. then fires Richard, and the
warning for the fourth directive disappears,
allowing RoboCop to shoot Richards. Richard
falls through the window and meets his demise.
The C.E.O. commends his gunslinging
skills and asks for his name.
RoboCop introduces himself as Murphy.
War on drugs and crime, in general, prevails
during these times. The government’s action to
combat it is, of course, violence. They resort
to endangering the lives of police officers
and civilians to purge Old Detroit of crime. To
alleviate the fear, they integrate technology and
a sort of disposable solution. RoboCop and ED 209
are examples of such. What they didn’t account for
is RoboCop turning on his creators. The overturn
of power sheds light on the truth that corrupt,
mechanized, and militarized systems
might be the true crime behind it all.